# hw0306

All reference are form ISO/IEC 9899:201x

## float <-> int32_t

### 6.3.1.4 Real floating and integer

> 1.When a finite value of real floating type is converted to an integer type other than _Bool,
the fractional part is discarded (i.e., the value is truncated toward zero). If the value of
the integral part cannot be represented by the integer type, the behavior is undefined.

> 2.When a value of integer type is converted to a real floating type, if the value being
converted can be represented exactly in the new type, it is unchanged. If the value being
converted is in the range of values that can be represented but cannot be represented
exactly, the result is either the nearest higher or nearest lower representable value, chosen
in an implementation-defined manner. If the value being converted is outside the range of
values that can be represented, the behavior is undefined. Results of some implicit
conversions may be represented in greater range and precision than that required by the
new type (see 6.3.1.8 and 6.8.6.4)

### IEC 60559 floating-point arithmetic  F.4 Floating to integer conversion

> If the integer type is _Bool, 6.3.1.2 applies and no floating-point exceptions are raised
(even for NaN). Otherwise, if the floating value is infinite or NaN or if the integral part
of the floating value exceeds the range of the integer type, then the ‘‘invalid’’ floating point exception is raised and the resulting value is unspecified. Otherwise, the resulting
value is determined by 6.3.1.4. Conversion of an integral floating value that does not
exceed the range of the integer type raises no floating-point exceptions; whether
conversion of a non-integral floating value raises the inexact floating-point exception is unspecified.

## float -> int32_t
* If the value of rhe integral part can be represented by integer32 type, the fractional part is discarded, if not, the behavior is undefined.

* If the floating value is infinite or NaN or if the integral part of the floating value exceeds the range of the integer type, then the invalid floating point exception is raised and the resulting value is unspecified.

### example
1111.1111 -> 1111

54321.12345 -> 54321

NaN & ntegral part of the floating value exceeds -> unspecified

## int32_t -> float
* If the integer can be represented by integral part of float, the intergral will be presented by integral part of float directly, if not, the behavior is undefined.

### example
1111 -> 1111.000000

3402823467 -> undefined

---

## int32_t <-> uint32_t

### 6.3.1.3 Signed and unsigned integers

> 1 When a value with integer type is converted to another integer type other than _Bool, if
the value can be represented by the new type, it is unchanged.
> 2 Otherwise, if the new type is unsigned, the value is converted by repeatedly adding or
subtracting one more than the maximum value that can be represented in the new type
until the value is in the range of the new type.60)
> 3 Otherwise, the new type is signed and the value cannot be represented in it; either the
result is implementation-defined or an implementation-defined signal is raised

## int32_t -> uint32_t

* If the value can be represented by the new type, it is unchanged

* if the new type is unsigned, the value is converted by repeatedly adding or subtracting one more than the maximum value that can be represented in the new type

### example

1111 -> 1111

-1000 -> 4294966296

## uint32_t -> int32_t

* he new type is signed and the value cannot be represented in it; either the
result is implementation-defined or an implementation-defined signal is raised

### example

1111 -> 1111

4294967294 -> -2

## double <-> float

### 6.3.1.5 Real floating types
> When a value of real floating type is converted to a real floating type, if the value being
converted can be represented exactly in the new type, it is unchanged. If the value being
converted is in the range of values that can be represented but cannot be represented
exactly, the result is either the nearest higher or nearest lower representable value, chosen
in an implementation-defined manner. If the value being converted is outside the range of
values that can be represented, the behavior is undefined. Results of some implicit
conversions may be represented in greater range and precision than that required by the
new type (see 6.3.1.8 and 6.8.6.4)

## double -> float

* When a value of real floating type is converted to a real floating type, if the value being
converted can be represented exactly in the new type, it is unchanged

* If the value being converted is in the range of values that can be represented but cannot be represented
exactly, the result is either the nearest higher or nearest lower representable value, chosen
in an implementation-defined manner.

### exmaple

1111.1111 -> 1111.1111

11111111111111.1111111111 -> NaN

## float -> double

*When a value of real floating type is converted to a real floating type, if the value being
converted can be represented exactly in the new type, it is unchanged

111111.11111 -> 111111.11111
